What does it mean?
It means that the staff knows that the competence model exists, it exists.
But when it comes to the manager and says,
determine what competencies are necessary for the future employee, the application to which you have submitted.
The manager answers, listen, determine something yourself.
Well, you know, you know our specifics so well.
You are not the first time you are looking for an employee for me.
Come up with something yourself.
The manager nods his head, perhaps he comes up with something himself,
a certain model of competence that he has, or maybe not, and does everything as usual.
Thus, it is important to understand that the development of a competence model is only the beginning.
The beginning before the future process of implementation, application and testing in our corporate practice.
It is important to understand the following, that having this tool,
the staff manager can no longer say that he does not participate and is not responsible for the management decisions
regarding the employees who are hired.
I will give you the following example.
Let's assume that the chief engineer of one of the enterprises is retiring and it is necessary to find a replacement.
What did the chief engineer think about?
Having worked in the company for many years, he said that there is one candidate, there is Vasya,
because Vasya has golden hands, he can do everything, and he is worthy of taking my place.
What can happen after that?
Vasya can be appointed to a position.
Will he be successful? Will he not be successful? It is not clear.
What other way of development can there be in this situation, if there is a competence model in the company?
The staff manager can offer several more candidates to his position together with the chief engineer.
It can be Vasya, Petya and Fedya.
The next step will be to evaluate the candidates' profile data.
What is the competence profile?
Not the current position, in which they work, for example, as mechanics or someone else,
but the profile of the position of the chief engineer.
What is the profile of the position of the chief engineer?
In addition to professional competencies, it is a block of management competencies.
Vasya has golden hands, and from the point of view of professional competencies, he is the best in the company.
But this does not mean that his competence profile, from the point of view of the profile of the position of the chief engineer, will be better.
And maybe Petya, who is number two, or number three,
and whose hands are not golden, and he cannot fix something like Vasya,
from the point of view of management competencies, he will be the best, because he knows how to deal with people,
he knows how to set tasks, he understands a certain system of work in the service of the chief engineer,
and he understands how to improve it, optimize it, and so on.
Therefore, the best candidate of the three will be Petya.
If we assign Vasya, then, perhaps, after some time, Vasya, having not worked with other managers,
and he will already become the chief engineer, and he will be surrounded by line managers,
with whom he used to work only as a subordinate.
If he is not successful, what can be his fate?
Most likely, he will leave the company.
Yes, he is unlikely to return to his previous place.
Thus, we will lose a good mechanic and will not acquire a chief engineer.
This is the case when a staff manager can participate in decision-making
and be responsible for their wrong decision.
If the situation goes down the wrong path, then the care of a good specialist
can be blamed on the staff.
Therefore, it is necessary to understand that using, having, using and using this tool,
we become responsible and participate in making all decisions that take place in the company.
If we recall the staff management system, then the competence model,
if it is developed uniformly for the entire company,
what we called a core model some time ago,
which is used in all practices and procedures of staff management,
it is applied in almost every direction.
Once again, we select employees, we assess their behavior using competence,
we develop, we work with corporate culture when we formulate corporate competencies.
Thus, in almost every direction, we use the competencies that we have created.
I want to tell you about an interesting and necessary method in our activities.
This is a method of paired comparison of competencies.
When do we need it?
Look, we have developed 12 competencies,
and we need to assess the employees of some department.
There can be 30 employees.
Maybe more, maybe less, of course, but maybe more.
To assess 30 employees of 12 competencies,
it is necessary to spend a lot of time.
Therefore, the question always arises,
what competencies are the most important?
Maybe we should focus on them?
The same thing with selection.
The same 12 competencies.
A large number of candidates must be interviewed.
And we always want to ask ourselves,
what competencies are critical?
What exactly can we refuse?
What are we ready to learn within the company?
What are we not ready to answer?
What competencies do we buy from the market,
inviting this specialist?
Thus, the question of arranging competencies arises.
And the method of paired comparison is very well applied.
It is important to remember the following.
We assess competencies for each other
for a certain position,
which is necessary for the future period of time.
We always appeal to the future,
not to what is today,
but to what will be needed tomorrow.
What is this method?
Its essence is that each competency
is consistently compared with another.
Competencies are compared with each other
by asking the question,
what is more important for an employee
to be successful in this position?
Which one? Competency 1 or Competency 2?
If our answer is that it is more important to have Competency 1,
then this competency is awarded 2 points.
If we find it difficult to choose,
because both competencies are important,
then both competencies get 1 point each.
If Competency 2 is more important,
and Competency 1, which we assess, is less important,
then Competency 1 gets 0 points.
Let's look at this with you as an example.
I would like to draw your attention to the slide with an example.
This slide consistently compares
5 competencies with each other.
Strategic thinking,
team building, adaptation to changes,
process management,
and result-oriented.
How do we do it?
Let's follow it and see together.
First of all, a certain position is defined.
Let it be the position of the head of the staff,
to illustrate our example.
First of all, Competency 1 is compared to Competency 2.
Strategic thinking is compared to team building.
What is the priority for this position?
It is clear that each of you can answer in different ways.
One will say that strategy is everything.
The other will say that team is everything.
We say that this is an example,
and the goal of this example is to show how points are distributed in the table.
Therefore, in our example, these competencies are equally important.
Thus, Competency 1 is a strategic thinking.
If we assess it,
then we go from left to right.
This competency gets 1 point.
We see that in the cell we write 1.
After that, we compare strategic thinking to the competency adaptation to changes.
What do we see?
These competencies are equally important.
Therefore, Competency 1 is 1 point.
After that, we compare strategic thinking to the competency of process management.
We see that Competency 1 is more important than process management for the head of the staff.
Thus, Strategic Thinking gets 2 points.
After that, we compare Competency 2 with the last competency,
which is the result-oriented.
We see that the result-oriented is more important.
Therefore, Strategic Thinking gets 0 points.
Thus, in our analysis, Strategic Thinking got 4 points.
After that, we go down to the line and start analyzing the creation of the team.
We compare the team with the strategic thinking.
We see it and write 1 there.
After that, we compare the team with the adaptation to changes.
We see that the team-creation competency is more important.
Therefore, it gets 2 points, and the adaptation to changes gets 0.
Also, the team-creation is more important than process management,
but less important than the result-oriented.
Accordingly, we assign 2 and 0 points.
Thus, the team-creation competency in total gets 5 points.
We go down to the line and start analyzing the adaptation to changes.
We have already compared it with the strategic thinking,
the team-creation, and now we have to compare it with only 2 competencies.
Process management and the result-oriented.
We say that in comparison with both competencies,
the adaptation to changes competencies are equally important.
Therefore, they get 1 point each.
The total point that the adaptation to changes gets is 3 points.
Let's move on to the process management.
We have to compare the process management only with the result-oriented,
because we have already compared it with all other competencies.
It was not important in comparison with the strategic thinking and the team-creation.
It got 1 point when it was about the adaptation to changes.
Accordingly, comparing it with the result-oriented,
the process management gets 2 points, because it is the most important.
In total, the process management gets 3 points.
Once again, this is an example.
In a company, for a certain position,
the result-oriented will be more important than the process management.
This is an example to illustrate this method.
When we get to the result-oriented,
we have already compared this competency with all other competencies.
We remember that it was more important than the strategic thinking,
than the team-creation.
It was about the adaptation to changes and gave way to the process management.
In total, this competency got 5 points.
Thus, we have two competencies that are the priority in this list.
What are these competencies?
These are the competencies that got 5 points.
They are the team-creation and the result-oriented.
Thus, out of the five competencies that we have,
we have determined two of the most important.
Maybe we needed three of the most important.
Then, this competency will be the strategic thinking,
which got 4 points.
Please note that we use this method
to determine the priority competencies for a specific position.
For example, these are two priority competencies
for the position of the head of the staff.
For the position of the logistics manager,
the priority competencies may be completely different.
Using this method, we make our activities a little easier.
If we need to find a specialist for this position,
we will understand that these competencies are the priority competencies.
It is important for us that a person is a team player,
that he can create a team, and we will teach him the rest.
If he is not a team player,
then, unfortunately, the level of development will not be high,
and he will not join our company.
We will not make him an offer.
We start talking about the application of competencies in our companies.
We start talking about the evaluation of the staff,
about the use of competencies when conducting evaluation procedures.
What are the goals of evaluation activities?
The first goal is to evaluate the current level of competence development,
the required level, and its compliance.
The second goal is to select people for the future staff reserve
and create individual development plans for them.
The next goal is to create a training program for employees
based on the results of evaluation activities.
The next goal is to correct compensation packages
for employees who have successfully completed evaluation activities.
As we have already discussed at the very beginning,
there is no single terminology in our professional community.
Therefore, in literature,
you can often find terms that are equated as synonyms.
Evaluation of activity, evaluation of competencies, etc.
In fact, at least for yourself,
it is necessary to understand that evaluation procedures are divided.
Either we evaluate the activity,
which in English sounds like performance appraisal,
we evaluate the effectiveness of our employees.
And the second is when we evaluate their behavior.
That is, evaluation of competencies.
Or we conduct an assessment center,
as we have already discussed,
taking this word for Russian,
and taking it into our professional language.
In our companies, these things can go hand in hand.
We evaluated a little how the employee achieved his results
and the goals that were set by his manager in the past.
And we evaluate competencies for a long time.
Again, it all depends on our tasks.
But it is important to remember that evaluation of activity is what?
And it answers the question, what did the employee do?
Evaluation of competencies answers the question,
how were these results achieved?
When we combine these two assessments,
we get very important information.
Let's imagine a situation when the head of the department comes,
let's say sales, since we often mention this department today,
and says that something is not sold well,
the plan is always fulfilled 80-85%.
It seems to be being fulfilled, and not the worst indicator,
but something is not reaching.
Conduct a training, and he provides a request to the staff manager.
The staff manager, having taken this request,
starts to call training companies,
and training companies come and conduct training for employees of the sales department.
Probably, what is important, they adapt it to a specific specificity.
Is it a real option?
Of course, it is real.
It often happens.
Often.
But if we use the assessment of competencies,
what can we see?
We can see that the department in general fulfills the plan 80-85%, as we said.
But each of the department employees lacks something of their own.
One person knows the product poorly, he is constantly confused.
Another person knows the product well, but when the client says it is expensive,
he falls into a stupor and cannot answer anything,
thinking about himself that it is really expensive.
That is, he does not know how to work with objections.
Another person, having carried out a single sale,
cannot establish a relationship with the client.
He starts looking for new ones,
and thus the post-sale service is not performed well and efficiently.
Thus, if we assess the competencies of the employees of this department,
we will see a different level of development of different competencies.
And by and large, we will offer this manager not a single program for everyone,
but we will show that each employee lacks something of their own.
And by and large, each employee should be sent to either his own training,
or specific things should be paid attention to in his work.
This is the situation when we will talk about individual development plans.
Therefore, once again, we will talk about the assessment of competencies today.
That is, exactly how.
This assessment of competencies should always be carried out in a system of assessment of staff,
where the assessment of activity is an important element.
That is, what was achieved.
So, when conducting assessment events, we must meet several conditions.
First of all, we need to determine the goal for which we are conducting the assessment.
What results we want to get and how we will use these results.
We must always remember that assessment events are not conducted for themselves,
but for some subsequent actions for the purpose of making some management decision.
Next, it is important that the selected assessment procedures meet the goals.
We will talk about the procedures a little later, including methods.
Next, it is important that there are competent people, competent assessors.
This can be both internal specialists and external specialists.
In any case, those who will assess our employees should have competencies in this area.
It often happens that employees of the staff do everything, and select, and train, and assess.
Probably, there are such specialists, but still there are not so many of them.
Therefore, it is important to ensure that our task is that the professionals are engaged in assessment.
Next, it is important to conduct preliminary explanatory work with employees.
Explain to them the goals of the assessment, explain their benefits, what they can get.
I do not recommend you to do an assessment that can involve some,
especially the first time, unpopular management decisions.
Do not give, do not fire, and so on.
Although it is not so simple, nevertheless, when employees know that they will not get something,
it is better to always go the other way around.
What can an employee get, what are his benefits, so that he participates and does not resist these procedures.
Next, it is a qualitative preparation of content, that is, their cases, exercises, role-playing games, and so on.
We will talk about them a little now.
So, what are the methods of assessment?
There are many methods, different methods, many of them you know.
The first is the filling of assessment sheets or conducting a survey with a 360-degree method.
What is 360 degrees?
This is a situation when an employee is assessed by the manager, his colleague, his subordinate,
if he has one, and the employee assesses himself.
That is, a kind of circular assessment.
In this case, if we have competencies, then the employee is assessed according to the competencies.
When we are in the assessment sheets, we provide all the indicators that we have developed,
and we ask to choose our evaluators, managers, whether it is a colleague or a subordinate,
what kind of employee you assess, what behavior he shows in his work.
And those who assess, they indicate.
The value of this assessment is that it is most often objective.
Of course, it happens when a subordinate wants to flatter the manager,
or the manager, having a certain tooth on the subordinate, can somehow lower the rating.
In any case, when it comes to assessment, let's say, from four sides,
the assessment will be balanced in some way, and we will receive information for analysis.
The next is an interview.
What kind of interview?
An interview, again, on competencies.
When the interviewer sits down with the employee and begins to ask him questions
about the situations that were in his professional life,
which took place, with questions about how this person behaved at one time or another,
what was the result of this behavior.
The goal of this interview is to gather the standards of behavior,
how a person behaves most often.
If we assess the managerial competencies of an employee,
and in his story there are few examples of how he showed these management competencies,
we can draw two conclusions.
The first is that the employee is not developed for some reason.
But there may be another conclusion,
that the employee does not have the opportunity to apply these competencies in our organization.
We taught him, taught him, taught him.
He can, but we did not give him resources.
He has no one to manage.
Thus, we will take this into account,
and in subsequent exercises, using other methods of assessment,
we will see how in a certain game, when solving certain tasks,
how the employee will show himself and his competencies in this situation.
The next method is testing.
Either we test to assess professional knowledge,
and then it is from the field of professional competencies,
as a first step.
Our goal is to understand whether employees do this,
but first we assess whether he knows what to do and how to do it.
Or these are psychological tests,
which are often used by specialists who know how to do it.
which are also used as tools in our work.
The next method is solving tasks or cases.
Most often these are individual exercises,
these are individual tasks, either written tasks or oral tasks,
when it is necessary to analyze a situation,
to offer your vision, to offer your decision.
Based on this, we, acting as assessors,
can draw conclusions about the preparation,
about the professional preparation of the employee,
if it was a task on a professional topic,
and about what competencies he has in the field of information analysis,
and in the field of information presentation,
if, for example, at the end of this task,
he has to make a presentation to the assessment commission.
The next method is games.
Games can be business or role-playing.
What is the essence of a role-playing game?
A role-playing game is, most often, a game
in which we analyze a certain invented situation,
which we set for ourselves.
We analyze the working, professional behavior of an employee.
If he works with clients,
then, accordingly, the role-playing game will be his,
as a manager, let's say, for sales and a client.
If we have a task to assess the communication competencies of the manager,
then we create a role-playing game
in which the manager communicates with the manager,
and they must protect their interests,
achieve their goals,
and at the same time jointly achieve a compromise.
A very important point is that
if we are preparing a role-playing game,
then we must prescribe both roles.
It is clear that these roles will contradict each other in their interests.
There will always be their minimum and maximum.
Nevertheless, these things need to be coordinated
so that neither one of the heroes,
who we assess,
nor the one who plays and helps him in this exercise,
has less opportunities for improvisation.
The game did not go in any way.
It is important that if we assess the communication and professional competencies,
how a person will act in a specific situation,
with the given resources to achieve the goals that are determined.
These are role-playing games.
When it comes to business games,
most often we mean games in which a group of people participates,
a group of assessors.
They have one common task,
which they must solve,
the goal which they must achieve.
The so-called simulation games are very popular now.
That is, a business situation, a business task,
in which a group of participants represents one company,
which is often fictional,
and which must achieve the goals with the resources they have.
This method is gaining more and more popularity
and is being used very actively to assess the leaders of the middle and upper ranks.
Because during such games,
the leaders are very open,
and we can observe their behavior.
The next method is group exercises or discussions.
When it is necessary to discuss a task,
or discuss a situation,
come to a single decision,
or when a controversy is organized on a controversial topic,
it is necessary to understand how the participants participate in such group discussions
and solve group exercises.
It is very important that during assessment procedures
it is important to assess the behavior that is really observable,
and not to think why the employee behaves in a proper way,
that is, not to analyze hypotheses about his reasons.
Thus, in a group of experts,
when an assessment commission is formed,
both internal specialists and specialists from the outside are often attracted.
On the one hand, the internal specialist knows a lot,
he knows the corporate spirit, he knows the environment, he knows corporate slang,
and he will be an assistant in the event of a situation
when the same behavior can be interpreted in different ways.
For example, we will call one person an economist,
if he is our friend,
and if he is not our friend,
how can we call him?
We can call him a miser.
The characteristics are different,
but the observed behavior can be similar.
It is the internal experts who will help us identify the observed behavior in a proper way,
and the external experts will help us, let's say,
to be free from the story that we know about the participants.
When you look and understand that in life he behaves differently,
probably he is tired, or has not slept,
or has not yet understood where he is,
but he is actually different.
An external expert will never allow us to do this,
he will always rely on the behavior he observes,
and will pay our attention to this.
Very often in literature we meet and talk about such a method as a center of assessment.
What is a center of assessment?
First of all, this term is a translation of the English term assessment center,
which we also use in our professional terminology.
It is important to understand that the classical assessment center,
which was introduced in Russia about 10 years ago by leading Western consulting companies,
includes a certain set of exercises.
This is a kind of a set of methods,
thanks to which we assess the behavior and the level of competence development that employees have.
Now, in corporate practice, we understand different things under the assessment center.
We combine two different methods and call it an assessment.
Nevertheless, there are some standards of the assessment center,
which should be taken into account even when we adapt it to our corporate tasks.
Most often, the assessment lasts 1-2 days.
The assessment is carried out based on the model of competence that exists.
Assessment is practically impossible to conduct without formulated competencies.
Next, competencies must be interconnected with the success of the work.
These are not just some competencies taken from somewhere,
these are the competencies that ensure the successful performance of the work.
How many participants can be?
There should be no more than 7 participants,
otherwise it will be difficult to observe them.
Or it can be 2 times 7, if we are talking about two groups and a large number of participants that we need to assess.
It is important to remember that there is such a concept as an individual assessment center,
in which one employee participates.
When can this be?
Most often, we use it when selecting staff.
When our company invites a top manager to work,
and we know a lot about his professional competencies,
because he is known on his market,
and we attract him with the help of the agency,
we should not make a mistake,
because the cost of the mistake will be quite high.
And we can offer, if we have a need for this,
to order an individual assessment center for this top manager,
during which we will assess his management and corporate competencies,
how much their level corresponds to our company.
For example, he can tell us during the interview that he is a team player,
that the interests of the team are the most important for him.
And this can correspond to what we have, and we want to hear it.
If the center is well organized, it is likely that it will not be conducted.
And we can see that this is not the person who,
having reached the gates, using football terminology,
will give the last pass and score a goal for his teammate.
He will still strive to do it himself.
And so we will see that a person declares that he is interested in work,
he declares his team spirit.
Maybe he even wants to be like that.
Nevertheless, in his work, he is an individualist and tries to do everything himself.
This is a good quality, but in our example, not for our position.
This is about the number of participants.
Next, the observers, that is, the assessors,
if we use American terminology.
There should be several observers, not one or two.
It is clear that their number directly depends on the number of participants.
If this is an individual assessment, then there will be enough two observers.
If these are groups, then most often there are three, four, five,
among which, I repeat, there are both involved specialists from outside,
and our internal employees.
What do the observers do?
The observers analyze the behavior that the participants of the assessment center
show during the exercises.
And everyone observes no more than two participants.
Because it's not that easy to observe, interpret, analyze the behavior you see.
Sometimes in different exercises, observers change participants.
It's not that the observer takes two participants and looks at them for two days.
No, in this exercise, he looks at these two, in the next exercise, he looks at others.
It is important to understand that, as we have already said,
the success of assessment procedures depends on the fulfillment of the exercises that our employees solve.
Therefore, more than 90% of the exercises should imitate professional activity.
And a maximum of 5-10% can be psychological exercises.
Because, again, our task is to assess the work behavior.
And we can assess the work behavior by creating the most characteristic conditions,
that is, the environment in which employees work every day.
The execution of each exercise, of course, is limited in time.
And in each exercise there are no more than four competencies.
Even if we try to analyze eight competencies,
which we have determined and included in our corporate model,
in any case, one exercise demonstrates no more than four.
And, no less important, each competence must be checked in several exercises, in two or three.
We can see, for example, how the employee behaves during the group work,
analyze, look, then recheck our suspicions, our thoughts about how he behaved in another exercise,
and in this one he behaves the same.
And if his behavior is repeated, then we can say that, yes,
competencies are demonstrated at this level.
If the behavior changes for some reason,
maybe he was first constrained, squeezed, and then realized that there was nothing wrong,
and opened up completely,
then we just suggest and observe his behavior in various exercises more closely.
An important recommendation is that each participant must be provided with feedback.
Feedback can be different.
It can be a well-prepared and structured plan of individual development,
or just a few words about what a person should pay attention to.
But in any case, feedback should be there,
and the more it is, the better it is for our project.
Let's talk about what exercises we use when holding the assessment center.
First of all, it can be group exercises or individual exercises.
If we talk about group exercises,
then it can be two types of exercises that we use most often.
These are exercises with distributed roles and with non-distributed roles.
What's the difference?
The difference is that if in the case of a group exercise with non-distributed roles,
the task is received by a group,
and the task of the observer is to analyze how each of the participants behaves
in a situation that is not specifically set for him, but for the group.
And then the participants are analyzed.
Who will organize the group and say,
do as I do, write on the flip chart, go there, take this, and so on.
Who will be the most silent, but at the end will say three phrases
that will change the course of the group's work,
and the group will make a decision and see this person.
In this case, if the roles are distributed,
then this is a situation when the roles that are offered to the participants are a little contradictory.
And everyone has their own goal,
it can be a common group, it can be within the group,
when the participants need to agree with each other,
have the resources that are set, and have some restrictions that also exist.
Individual exercises can also be different.
It can be either a presentation,
when the participant needs to familiarize himself with the package of information provided,
he needs to analyze this information and make a decision,
presenting it to the evaluation commission.
It can be a role-playing game,
which refers to individual exercises, which we have already talked about.
It can be an exercise to find facts,
when the participant is given a brief description of a problem,
a situation that needs to be solved,
and he has the opportunity to ask a number of questions to the members of the evaluation commission,
asking for the necessary information that he needs to solve this exercise.
It can be an individual business exercise,
which is called an intray,
or you can look up the name in the Internet and in the literature,
as in a basket or in a folder.
The point is that the participant receives a certain package of information,
it can be of completely different types,
and his task is to solve the task that is set for him.
For example, it can be our reservist,
whom we are preparing for the role of the future leader.
Thus, he receives some information,
some correspondence, some documentation of his internal leader.
If the leader is not present and he is on a business trip,
he needs to analyze all the information and solve it.
It can be within the framework of one unit,
when there is a task to answer,
the client asks for a discount or he has stopped the supply of products.
It is necessary to identify whether the decision was made correctly or incorrectly,
and in the absence of imitation,
it is necessary to read the documents that confirm and illustrate
the history of cooperation with this client,
and assess whether it was a right decision or not,
and take responsibility for his acceptance.
The question is,
all this is great, the exercises are different,
where to get them from?
If the task is to hold an assessment center for reservists
and select candidates for the personnel reserve,
where to get the exercises?
There are several options.
If you invite professionals, professional consultants,
representatives of consulting or training companies,
your partners will come with a package of exercises,
which they will either use,
or when certain agreements are reached,
they will leave them for your future work.
Very often consultants develop exercises with you,
helping you do this,
already adapting the existing exercises to your corporate practice.
If you want to do it yourself,
you will never find the exercises that you need.
Develop them.
The question is who develops them?
Again, together with the managers and leading experts.
Because all the most difficult situations that could happen,
many of them have already happened.
And there is always a story.
Do you remember how difficult it was,
what conflict arose, how we solved it?
And there are always such stories,
practically legends in all departments.
Therefore, the task of the staff is to describe them
and create some exercises from them.
Be it an exercise to find facts,
or describe some role-playing game,
or to come up with a situation for analysis,
in order to understand how the future participant of the assessment center
will act in a given situation.
It is clear that if you send a letter to the manager,
saying that you need to describe how it all happened,
because you need it for your future exercise,
probably not everyone will answer,
because it is not always easy to formulate and write.
Therefore, it is advisable to work together.
It can be a specialist of the staff,
it can be a specialist engaged in training,
who simply comes with certain guiding questions to the manager
and just collects these examples.
And after a while you will have your own library of exercises,
which you will periodically update,
periodically you will add the most interesting exercises,
exclude something and modify them.
Then you can say that a certain library has been developed,
a certain portfolio of tasks that you use
to assess your competencies in completely different exercises.